"Modeling surround suppression in V1 neurons with a statistically-derived normalization model." Advances in neural information processing systems 11: Proceedings of the 1998 conference. Vol. 11. MIT press, 1999.
We examine the statistics of natural monochromatic images decomposed 
using a multi-scale wavelet basis. Although the coefficients of this rep- 
resentation are nearly decorrelated, they exhibit important higher-order 
statistical dependencies that cannot be eliminated with purely linear pro- 
cessing. In particular, rectified coefficients corresponding to basis func- 
tions at neighboring spatial positions, orientations and scales are highly 
correlated. A method of removing these dependencies is to divide each 
coefficient by a weighted combination of its rectified neighbors. Sev- 
eral successful models of the steady-state behavior of neurons in primary 
visual cortex are based on such "divisive normalization" computations, 
and thus our analysis provides a theoretical justification for these models. 
Perhaps more importantly, the statistical measurements explicitly specify 
the weights that should be used in computing the normalization signal. 
We demonstrate that this weighting is qualitatively consistent with re- 
cent physiological experiments that characterize the suppressive effect 
of stimuli presented outside of the classical receptive field. Our obser- 
vations thus provide evidence for the hypothesis that early visual neural 
processing is well matched to these statistical properties of images. 
An appealing hypothesis for neural processing states that sensory systems develop in re- 
sponse to the statistical properties of the signals to which they are exposed [e.g., 1, 2]. 
This has led many researchers to look for a means of deriving a model of cortical process- 
ing purely from a statistical characterization of sensory signals. In particular, many such 
attempts are based on the notion that neural responses should be statistically independent. 
The pixels of digitized natural images are highly redundant, but one can always find a 
linear decomposition (i.e., principal component analysis) that eliminates second-order cot- 
Research supported by an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship to EPS, and by the Sloan Center for Theoretical 
Neurobiology at NYU. 
